Use Cases
Documentation
SDKs & Tools
Community
Blog
API Dashboard
Vonage.com
Pricing
Support
English
中文
日本語
My profile
My dashboard
Log out
Voice
Voice API
Overview
Concepts
Call Flow
Call Control Objects
Numbers
Endpoints
Text to Speech
Customizing Spoken Text
Speech to Text
DTMF
Call Recording
Web Sockets
Contact Center Intelligence
Fraud Prevention
Guides
Code Snippets
Tutorials
Voice Inspector (Beta)
NCCO Reference
Webhook Reference
API Reference
SIP
Endpoints
Overview

Endpoints is a term used with the Vonage Voice API to describe the different destinations a call could be connected to. Each endpoint type has its own addressing format and other related metadata that can be sent along with the call. The most common type of endpoint used is phone, which is for making phone calls to regular phone numbers anywhere in the world. This network of phones is known as the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).

Phone

The phone endpoint takes a required value of number which is the number to be called in E.164 format. E.164 format is the full international format without any leading zeros or + signs, for example 447700900123 for the UK or 14155550100 for the US.

You can also send an optional dtmfAnswer parameter which is a string of digits 0-9 along with *, # and p characters that would be sent via DTMF when the call is answered. Each pause (p) is 500ms.

Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)

SIP is used to connect a call to your own SIP system such as an office PBX or other telephony service using the standards laid down in RFC3261.

The uri should be constructed as a SIP URL in the format sip:user@example.com by default Vonage will connect to port 5060 unless another port is specified in the URI. You can specify TLS for the SIP transport by adding ;transport=tls to the end of your URI.

Media will be sent via UDP on all ports.

For more information on the IP addresses used for SIP traffic originating from Vonage see What IP addresses should I allow in order to receive voice traffic from Vonage?

Websockets

Vonage offers the ability to connect a call to a WebSocket endpoint where the audio of the call is sent and received in real-time over a long-lived HTTP connection.

With websockets, Vonage acts as the HTTP client and makes an HTTP request to your web server which should then upgrade that connection to a websocket.

The endpoint is addressed via a uri parameter which should be a standard websocket URL, starting with either ws:// for plain HTTP or wss:// for TLS enabled servers. The Content-Type parameter can be set to audio/l16;rate=16000 or audio/l16;rate=8000, depending on if you need the data at 16kHz or 8kHz. Most real-time transcription services work best with audio at 8kHz.

An optional headers parameter can be passed containing a JSON object of key value pairs that you want to send. The maximum size of this headers parameter is 512 bytes.

CallerID

For both phone and sip endpoint types, the from field must be a Vonage Number associated with your account in E.164 format. This will then be used as the caller ID on the receiving phone. For SIP endpoints it will take the format number@sip.nexmo.com.

Vonage Business Cloud

The vbc endpoint enables you to connect an inbound call on a Vonage Business Cloud (VBC) programmable number to the VBC extension you specify in the extension property of the endpoint.

Feedback