Use Cases
Documentation
SDKs & Tools
Community
Blog
API Dashboard
Vonage.com
Pricing
Support
English
中文
日本語
My profile
My dashboard
Log out
Voice
Voice API
Overview
Concepts
Guides
Masked Calling
Conference Calling
Voice Notifications
Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
Advanced IVR
Voice Bot with Google Dialogflow
Voice Bot with Amazon Lex
Click to Call
Call Tracking
Programmable SIP
Voicemail
Call Recording Transcription
Voice Journey
Local Numbers
Call Whisper
Troubleshooting
Code Snippets
Tutorials
Voice Inspector (Beta)
NCCO Reference
Webhook Reference
API Reference
SIP
Conference Calling
Overview

The Vonage Voice API has two concepts associated with a call - a leg and a conversation.

A leg refers to a single connection either inbound to, or outbound from, the Vonage platform.

A conversation contains one or more call legs. Each endpoint connected to a conversation is its own leg.

When a new inbound or outbound phone call is received, a new conversation is created and the leg for the phone call is created. Once this has happened, an NCCO is retrieved from your answer_url and executed within the context of the conversation.

Additional legs may be added to the conversation using the connect action. If an NCCO contains multiple connect actions, then each new participant will be joined into the same conversation and all parties will be able to hear each other.

Legs and conversations are each identified by their own UUID. Conversation UUID's are prefixed with CON-.

Conferences

You can create a special type of conversation by using the conversation action within an NCCO. This resulting named conversation then acts like a conference bridge. New legs can then be added to this conversation by executing a conversation action with the same name.

Conversation names are scoped to an application level. This means that any legs that are connected to a conversation with the same name will be able to hear each other, provided they are using the same Vonage Application.

Feedback