Use Cases
Documentation
SDKs & Tools
Community
Blog
API Dashboard
Vonage.com
Pricing
Support
English
中文
日本語
My profile
My dashboard
Log out
Voice
Voice API
Overview
Concepts
Call Flow
Call Control Objects
Numbers
Endpoints
Text to Speech
Customizing Spoken Text
Speech to Text
DTMF
Call Recording
Web Sockets
Contact Center Intelligence
Fraud Prevention
Guides
Code Snippets
Tutorials
Voice Inspector (Beta)
NCCO Reference
Webhook Reference
API Reference
SIP
Numbers
Overview

Numbers are a key concept to understand when working with the Vonage Voice API. The following points should be considered before developing your Vonage Application.

Formatting

Within the Vonage Voice API all numbers are in E.164 format. This means that numbers:

Omit both a leading + and the international access code such as 00 or 001.
Contain no special characters, such as a space, () or -

For example, a US number would have the format 14155550101. A UK number would have the format 447700900123.

If you are unsure how to format the number the Number Insight API can be used to find correct information about a number.

Outgoing CallerID

When making an outbound call from Vonage the CallerID, from value needs to be a Vonage Number associated with your account. Any Vonage number associated with your account will work. It does not have to be linked to the application you are using. If you set it to any other value then from is set to unknown.

Incoming CallerID

Vonage attempts to present to you the caller ID of the party calling your Vonage application in international format. However, this can occasionally be incorrectly formatted by the originating network. Vonage passes through the number received from the number supplier. You can learn more about inbound caller ID on our voice features overview page in the Vonage knowledge base.

Incoming Call Numbers

Vonage offers for rental incoming numbers located in many countries around the world. In some countries the numbers may be enabled for SMS or Voice only, or in others they will support both.

Vonage can also provide numbers in both 'landline' and 'mobile' ranges for many countries. You can search for and rent an available number via the Dashboard or the Vonage CLI tool.

To use a number you have rented from Vonage with your voice application you need to link that number to the application again either via the Dashboard or the CLI tool. You can link multiple incoming numbers to the same application and the number that was called will be passed to your answer_url in the to parameter.

Feedback